# Imagery Data Manager (IDM) 
# (formerly osmre-uav) 

IDM is an application on GeoPlatform.gov (https://www.geoplatform.gov/apps), which is a US cross-agency collaborative effort and shared service that embodies the principles and spirit of open government, emphasizing government-to-citizen communication, accountability, and transparency. Organizations working with US agencies can request access to use IDM at no cost.

Without an easy-to-use data management solution to enable the discovery and sharing of relevant information, imagery and its associated data often end up on personal laptops or siloed in systems far outside the reach of those who need them most. Also, productivity gains realized through collaboration are missed, resulting in duplicate and unused work. Several everyday processing tasks are too often left unperformed because of time and resource constraints. 

The Imagery Data Manager (IDM) is an open-source and cloud-based application built for the US Department of Interior that solves these challenges by providing a cloud-based solution that cost-effectively stores, manages, processes, and shares imagery. IDM was built using open-source components including OpenJDK, MapboxGL, PostgreSQL, OrientDB, Solr, OpenDroneMap, GDAL, GeoPrism, GeoServer, Micasense, Python, Libvips, and Potree. IDM has been made available under the Apache License Version 2 on GitHub. Spatial knowledge graphs built in GeoPrism organize data by location and how sensors, imagery and processed outputs are related to each other.  

Drone operators can upload imagery through a simple drag and drop interface on a web browser. Large amounts of data can be reliably uploaded to the cloud with intermittent internet connectivity and low bandwidth. IDM utilizes Amazon Web Services (AWS) via its Simple Storage Service (S3) to support a scalable storage capacity. OpenDroneMap and other open source tools are used to perform image processing tasks including orthorectification, multispectral to Red/Green/Blue (RGB) conversions, image mosaics, digital elevation models, and point clouds. Imagery and metadata are indexed spatially and temporally using GeoPrism knowledge graphs to allow visibility into site changes across time. Also, sensors, flights, raw and processed imagery, metadata, and processing outputs are all connected and searchable.
